Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Let's talk about the best practices of using the 404 page
or the coming soon page type MVP to test out
your new feature or product idea.
Chances are, you've seen these before,
but you probably don't remember them.
Why?
Well, because it generally just feels like nothing out of the ordinary.
As for the 404 MVP,
these are some of the hardest MVPs to spot, because
how do you even know if it was a test or not?
It could just be that the page was broken,
and coming soon pages are nowadays everywhere,
half of which never materialized and did anything at all.
Now, how do you choose between running a 404 or
a coming soon page? Well, just ask yourself this question.
If I'm a user, would I rather think the page is broken
or that the page was misleading?
Which of these two options is the least evil for you?
Whatever you say, that's probably the way you should go.
The companies that can get away with 404s are
the ones that generally have tons and tons of pages.
Why?
Because, if you see a 404, you can still jump
to another product and keep browsing.
Not a lot of damage done.
Amazon does this all the time, because they have
10 bajillion roughly other pages you can look at.
Clothing companies run variations of this all the time.
They'll add new items, but make them
out of stock, and that's totally normal.
No one notices this.
The companies that generally get away with coming soon
page MVPs are often companies that are smaller
and where the audience is aware that they are in fact new.
Those companies are already working with their early adopters,
and those of you guys that completed my
MVP course know that early adopters generally have
very tough skin when it comes to this stuff.
They generally revel in the fact that they are
cutting edge, so in a weird way,
coming soon pages actually don't faze them at all,
they feel better about them. Now,
if Walmart.com did this, it would be considered
universally tacky on the other hand.
So think about your user expectations and which of these
result in the least negative outcome. Can they
get over the broken page and will this
coming soon page peak their interest or deflate it?
If you decide to go this route, let's talk about
some tips and best practices.
Number one is design it.
What do I mean? Well, there is a world of difference
between a bland colorless page that really does look
like your site is broken and a clever well-designed
404 page that actually might enhance your brand.
Check out the resources.
There are actually lists of 404 sites that have done this really well.
Some of these 404s are actually really funny and it
endears you to the company and allows the company
to continue a conversation with you that
they otherwise wouldn't be able to.
The same goes for coming soon pages.
Put some effort into them.
Don't just use generic templates and
don't forget to proofread whatever you put up.
My best suggestion here is to use a tool that
is designed specifically for coming soon pages,
the two main ones being Launchrock and KickoffLabs.
Those two sites will help you pull one together
very quickly and even let you import your own design assets
and make it look like a seamless continuation
of your product - sometimes you can't even tell
that you used a platform for it.
Number two is shorten the horizon on these as much as possible.
You don't want to see the same users
seeing the same 404 or coming soon in a page.
"That's annoying" turns Into "I'm angry." So try to limit the length of these tests. Alright guys, see you in the next lecture.